=head1 NAME

Strehler::Manual::Configuration - How to configure Strehler on Dancer2 

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Here is an example configuration for Strehler, code to add to your B<config.yml> under your Dancer2 site.

    Strehler:
        admin_secured: 0
        dashboard_active: 1
        languages: ['it', 'en']
        default_language: 'it'
        timezone: 'Europe/Rome'
        extra_menu: [...]
        dashboard: [...]

Let's see wwhat all this means.

=over 4

=item admin_secured

With 0 can turn off the login in the backend. You should use this configuration only for development purpose, never in production.

=item dashboard_active

With dashboard_active = 1 dashboard is active. For more informations about dashboard see L<Strehler::Manual::Dashboard>.

=item languages

All the managed languages. For every language Strehler will ask multilanguage data on entry creation.

=item default_language

The default language

=item timezone

Timezone that will be used to display timestamp columns

=item default_entity

Used by EX plugin. Default element will be the entity used by EX plugin when no entity is specified. It not specifed, it's 'article'

=item extra_menu

Extra_menu part is described in the L<Strehler::Manual::ExtraEntityConfiguration>

=item dashboard

Extra_menu part is described in the L<Strehler::Manual::Dashboard>

=back

=head2 Note about timezone

Strehler saves datetime data in UTC and than displays it using the cofigurated timezone. Best practice to manage time data is:

=over 4

=item *

Use DateTime type for database fields

=item *

Use DateTime inflator in forms

=item * 

When you write a custom save of a form field remember to save the DateTime object with timezone UTC.

=back

Standard entities obviously already follow these rules.

=cut
