=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Strehler::Element - Base class for Strehler entities management

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Articles, images and every entity you decide to manage in Strehler have to be Strehler::Element subclasses. Strehler::Element is the collection of methods that you can call to (mainly) retrieve the data inserted in the CMS and make it available in your business logic.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Below, a code example to display an archive (with pagination) with all the articles about a certain category.

    get '/romanzo' => sub {
        my $entries_per_page = 20;
        my $page = params->{page} || 1;
        my $order = params->{order} || 'desc';
        my $elements = Strehler::Element::Article->get_list({ 
            page => $page, 
            entries_per_page => $entries_per_page, 
            category => 'EXAMPLE_CATEGORY', 
            language => 'en', 
            ext => 1, 
            published => 1, 
            order => $order});
        template "archive", { 
            page_title => 'Archive',
            articles => $elements->{'to_view'}, 
            page => $page, 
            order => $order, 
            last_page => $elements->{'last_page'} };

    };

=head1 METHODS TO RETRIEVE INFORMATIONS ABOUT AN ENTITY

=over 4

=item exists

Return Value: $exists

Return 1 if the element is linked to a real row on the database, 0 otherwise.

=item get_attr

Arguments: $attr

Return Value: $attr_value

Return the value for the attribute (the database column) named $attr.

=item get_attr_multilang

Arguments: $attr, $lang

Return Value: $attr_value

Return the value for the multilanguage attribute named $attr in the language $lang

=item has_language

Arguments: $lang

Return Value: $has_language

Return 1 if the Element has multilang attributes for language $lang

=item get_category_name

Return Value: $category

Return the name of the category of the element in the format $parent/$category is category has two levels.

=item get_tags

Return Value: $tags

Return a string composed with all the tags related to the element, separated with commas.

=item get_basic_data

Return Value %data;

Return all the data about the element, except for multilang attributes.

=item get_ext_data

Arguments: $lang

Return Value %data;

Return all the data about the element as C<get_basic_data>, adding all the multilang attributes in the language $lang.

=item main_title

Return Value: $main_title

Return the main title for the element. The standard implementation try for an attribute named B<title> or B<name>. If these attributes are not available return just B<id>.

In Articles and Images it returns the title attribute in the default language.

=back

=head1 METHODS TO MANIPULATE ENTITIES

These methods are used by Strehler backend, so use them carefully.

=over 4

=item delete

Delete the element and all the multilang attributes linked to it.

=item publish

Publish a publishable element

=item unpublish

Unpublish a publishable element

=back

=head1 METHODS TO RETRIEVE ELEMENTS

The most important methods. Some of them are class method. They're wrappers for the queries needed to retrieve data.

=over 4

=item get_list

Arguments: \%query_params

Return Values: \%elements

Main class method to retrieve elements. There're many query_params you can use.

    order => desc|asc # The order of the results. Default is desc
    order_by => $order_by # The field to order by. Default is id
    entries_per_page => $entries # How many results retrieve. Default is 20.
                           # -1 makes the method return ALL results
    page => $page. Default is 1
    language => $lang # The language for multilanguage attributes. 
                      # Default is Strehler configured default language
    published => $pub # Retrive only published elements (for publishable elements)
    tag => $tag # Retrieve elements with a certain tag
    category => $category # Retrieve elements with a certain category
                          # Category can be written in the form $parent/$cat
    category_id => $category_id # Retrieve elements with the category with that id
    ext => 1 # Return elements with al data (get_ext_data is invoked)

All the parameters can be combined togheter.

The method return a pointer to an hash composed by:

    to_view => \@to_view # A pointer to an array of hashes. Every hash contain the data about an element 
                         # as in get_basic_data or get_ext_data
    last_page => last available page, to make easy paging logic.    

=item next_in_category_by_order/prev_in_category_by_order

Arguments: $language

Return Value: $element

Retrieve the next/previous element of the same category of the element used to call it using the display_order as ordering field.
Language is needed because a element could exists in a language but not in another.
Returns a Strehler::Element.
You can use this only on elements with a display_order field (like articles). Configure the entity as ordered.

=item next_in_category_by_date/prev_in_category_by_date

Arguments: $language

Return Value: $element

Same as previous method, but using the publish_date to order elements.
You can use this only on elements with a publish_date field (like articles). Configure the entity as dated.

=item get_first_by_order/get_last_by_order

Arguments: $category, $language

Return Value: $element

Class method. Retrieve the last/first element in the category with category name $category (child categories must be written as parent/child). Order using display_order.
Language considered as in the previous methods.
Returns a Strehler::Element.
You can use this only on elements with a display_order field (like articles). Configure the entity as ordered.

=item get_first_by_date/get_last_by_date

Arguments: $category, $language

Return Value: $element

Same as get_first_by_order/get_last_by_order, using publish_date to order elements.
You can use this only on elements with a publish_date field (like articles). Configure the entity as dated.

=item get_by_slug

Arguments: $slug, $language

Return Value: $element

Available only for articles. Retrive the Article $element using the slug generated in automatic by CMS.

=back

=cut
